tests/README.md, before:

### Application-level configuration (`app-config.json`)

The application exposes runtime configuration via a JSON file served at the site root: `app-config.json`.

Key fields used by tests and the P2P module:

- `wsHost`, `wsPort`, `wsPath`
- `p2p.iceServers`: WebRTC ICE server list (STUN/TURN). Example:

```json
{
  "wsHost": "192.168.1.139",
  "wsPort": 3001,
  "wsPath": "/ws/",
  "p2p": {
    "iceServers": [
      { "urls": "stun:stun.l.google.com:19302" },
      { "urls": "stun:stun1.l.google.com:19302" }
    ]
  }
}
```

How it is loaded:

- The P2P module calls `resolveP2PConfig()` (see `js/modules/p2p-serverless/config.js`) which fetches `/app-config.json` and reads `p2p.iceServers`.
- Precedence for P2P settings:
  1. Module init overrides (e.g. `p2p.init({ config: { iceServers: [...] } })`)
  2. `app-config.json` → `p2p.iceServers`
  3. Built-in safe defaults

Why this matters for tests:

- You can point tests to specific STUN/TURN infrastructure without touching code.
- In constrained networks, add a TURN server here to stabilize connectivity.

# P2P Serverless End-to-End Tests

This directory contains Playwright tests for the P2P Serverless functionality of the PKC Landing Page.

## Setup

1. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Install Playwright Browsers:**
   ```bash
   npm run install-browsers
   ```

## Running Tests

### Run All Tests
```bash
npm test
```

### Run Tests in Headed Mode (see browser)
```bash
npm run test:headed
```

### Debug Tests (step through)
```bash
npm run test:debug
```

### Visual Test Runner
```bash
npm run test:ui
```

### View Test Reports
```bash
npm run report
```

## Test Structure

### `p2p-connection.spec.js`

**Main Test: "should complete full P2P connection between two tabs"**

This test automates the complete P2P connection flow:

1. **Setup**: Opens two browser contexts (simulating two users)
2. **Tab 1 - Create Invitation**: Clicks "Create Invitation" button, extracts invitation code
3. **Tab 2 - Accept Invitation**: Clicks "Accept Invitation", pastes invitation code, extracts answer code
4. **Tab 1 - Complete Connection**: Clicks "Complete Connection", pastes answer code
5. **Verification**: Confirms both tabs show "Connected to 1 peer"
6. **Messaging Test**: Sends messages between connected peers
7. **Disconnect Test**: Tests disconnect functionality

**Secondary Test: "should handle connection timeouts gracefully"**

Tests error handling with expired invitation codes.

## Test Architecture

### Browser Contexts
- Uses separate browser contexts to simulate different users
- Prevents cross-contamination between test sessions
- More realistic than multiple pages in same context

### Dialog Handling
- Automatically handles browser prompts for invitation codes
- Extracts and passes codes between tabs seamlessly
- No manual intervention required

### Real-time Verification
- Waits for WebRTC connection establishment
- Verifies UI updates (peer counts, status messages)
- Tests actual message exchange between peers

## Configuration

### `playwright.config.js`
- Configured for local development (localhost:8000)
- Automatically starts Python HTTP server
- Uses Chromium by default (fastest for WebRTC)
- HTML reporter for detailed test results

### Test Timeouts
- WebRTC connection: 15 seconds
- Modal appearance: 5-10 seconds
- Message delivery: 5 seconds

## Troubleshooting

### WebRTC Connection Issues
- Ensure no firewall blocking WebRTC ports
- Check STUN server connectivity
- Verify WebRTC is enabled in browser

### Test Flakiness
- WebRTC connections can be timing-sensitive
- Increase timeouts if needed in CI environments
- Use `fullyParallel: false` to avoid resource conflicts

### Browser Context Issues
- Each test creates fresh browser contexts
- Contexts are properly cleaned up after tests
- No cross-test contamination

## CI/CD Integration

For continuous integration, add to your pipeline:

```yaml
- name: Install Playwright Browsers
  run: npm run install-browsers

- name: Run P2P Tests
  run: npm test
  env:
    CI: true
```

## Manual Testing

If you prefer manual testing instead of automated tests:

1. Open two browser tabs to `http://localhost:8000/js/modules/p2p-serverless/example.html`
2. Follow the on-screen instructions
3. Tab 1: Create Invitation → Copy code
4. Tab 2: Accept Invitation → Paste Tab 1's code → Copy answer
5. Tab 1: Complete Connection → Paste Tab 2's answer
6. Send messages to verify connection

## Test Coverage

- ✅ Invitation creation and modal display
- ✅ QR code generation
- ✅ Cross-tab code exchange
- ✅ WebRTC connection establishment
- ✅ Real-time messaging
- ✅ Connection status updates
- ✅ Error handling (expired codes)
- ✅ Disconnect functionality
- ✅ UI responsiveness and accessibility

## Performance Metrics

Typical test execution times:
- Full connection flow: 30-45 seconds
- Individual steps: 2-10 seconds each
- Message exchange: < 1 second

These tests provide comprehensive coverage of the P2P serverless functionality, ensuring reliable peer-to-peer communication across different browser contexts.

Commit message:

Enhance Music Visualizer V5: Improved Playback Behavior and Automated UI Testing
This commit introduces several key improvements to the Synced Music Visualizer V5:

1.  **Audio Engine (AudioEngineV5.js)**:
    - Implemented immediate stop logic when a new song is selected, preventing overlapping audio.
    - Added 'Restart on Play' behavior: clicking the Play button now always resets the cursor and timer to the beginning (00:00) for a more consistent user experience.

2.  **UI Manager (UIManagerV4.js)**:
    - Significant enhancement to state reporting: the status bar now explicitly displays 'Paused', 'Stopped', and 'Finished' states based on the Redux store.
    - Improved icon toggling logic for better visual synchronization.

3.  **Automated Testing (tests/music-visualizer-v5.spec.js)**:
    - Created a comprehensive Playwright E2E test suite covering:
        - Initial page load and component state.
        - Dynamic song selection and sheet music rendering.
        - Playback controls (Play/Pause/Stop) and timer accuracy.
        - Behavior verification for immediate stop on selection and restart on play.
        - Performance metrics validation (Load, Render, Worker times).
    - Verified all 7 test cases pass in a headless environment.

4.  **Documentation Update**:
    - Updated root README.md, Music Examples README.md, and Tests README.md to reflect the new features, architecture changes, and automated testing capabilities.

This update solidifies the V5 architecture as the robust, testable, and high-performance standard for the project's music visualization examples.

tests/README.md, after:

### Application-level configuration (`app-config.json`)

The application exposes runtime configuration via a JSON file served at the site root: `app-config.json`.

Key fields used by tests and the P2P module:

- `wsHost`, `wsPort`, `wsPath`
- `p2p.iceServers`: WebRTC ICE server list (STUN/TURN). Example:

```json
{
  "wsHost": "192.168.1.139",
  "wsPort": 3001,
  "wsPath": "/ws/",
  "p2p": {
    "iceServers": [
      { "urls": "stun:stun.l.google.com:19302" },
      { "urls": "stun:stun1.l.google.com:19302" }
    ]
  }
}
```

How it is loaded:

- The P2P module calls `resolveP2PConfig()` (see `js/modules/p2p-serverless/config.js`) which fetches `/app-config.json` and reads `p2p.iceServers`.
- Precedence for P2P settings:
  1. Module init overrides (e.g. `p2p.init({ config: { iceServers: [...] } })`)
  2. `app-config.json` → `p2p.iceServers`
  3. Built-in safe defaults

Why this matters for tests:

- You can point tests to specific STUN/TURN infrastructure without touching code.
- In constrained networks, add a TURN server here to stabilize connectivity.

# P2P Serverless End-to-End Tests

This directory contains Playwright tests for the P2P Serverless functionality of the PKC Landing Page.

## Setup

1. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Install Playwright Browsers:**
   ```bash
   npm run install-browsers
   ```

## Running Tests

### Run All Tests
```bash
npm test
```

### Run Tests in Headed Mode (see browser)
```bash
npm run test:headed
```

### Debug Tests (step through)
```bash
npm run test:debug
```

### Visual Test Runner
```bash
npm run test:ui
```

### View Test Reports
```bash
npm run report
```

## Test Structure

### `p2p-connection.spec.js`

**Main Test: "should complete full P2P connection between two tabs"**

This test automates the complete P2P connection flow:

1. **Setup**: Opens two browser contexts (simulating two users)
2. **Tab 1 - Create Invitation**: Clicks "Create Invitation" button, extracts invitation code
3. **Tab 2 - Accept Invitation**: Clicks "Accept Invitation", pastes invitation code, extracts answer code
4. **Tab 1 - Complete Connection**: Clicks "Complete Connection", pastes answer code
5. **Verification**: Confirms both tabs show "Connected to 1 peer"
6. **Messaging Test**: Sends messages between connected peers
7. **Disconnect Test**: Tests disconnect functionality

**Secondary Test: "should handle connection timeouts gracefully"**

Tests error handling with expired invitation codes.

### `music-visualizer-v5.spec.js` 🆕

**Main Test: "Synchronized Music Visualizer V5"**

This suite validates the core functionality of the enhanced music visualizer:

1. **Initial State**: Verifies page load, header content, and default song selection.
2. **Song Selection**: Tests clicking song buttons and verifying that "Ready" status and sheet music (SVG) appear.
3. **Playback Control**: 
   - **Play**: Verifies timer advancement and status change to "Playing".
   - **Pause**: Verifies status change to "Paused" and icon toggling.
   - **Stop**: Verifies timer reset to 00:00 and status change to "Stopped".
   - **Restart on Play**: Confirms that clicking Play always restarts from the beginning.
4. **Immediate Stop**: Verifies that selecting a new song while playing immediately stops all audio/visual playback.
5. **Performance Metrics**: Validates that render times and worker dispatch metrics are calculated and displayed.
6. **Robustness**: Verifies that all components initialize correctly after a page reload.

## Test Architecture

### Browser Contexts
- Uses separate browser contexts to simulate different users
- Prevents cross-contamination between test sessions
- More realistic than multiple pages in same context

### Dialog Handling
- Automatically handles browser prompts for invitation codes
- Extracts and passes codes between tabs seamlessly
- No manual intervention required

### Real-time Verification
- Waits for WebRTC connection establishment
- Verifies UI updates (peer counts, status messages)
- Tests actual message exchange between peers

## Configuration

### `playwright.config.js`
- Configured for local development (localhost:8000)
- Automatically starts Python HTTP server
- Uses Chromium by default (fastest for WebRTC)
- HTML reporter for detailed test results

### Test Timeouts
- WebRTC connection: 15 seconds
- Modal appearance: 5-10 seconds
- Message delivery: 5 seconds

## Troubleshooting

### WebRTC Connection Issues
- Ensure no firewall blocking WebRTC ports
- Check STUN server connectivity
- Verify WebRTC is enabled in browser

### Test Flakiness
- WebRTC connections can be timing-sensitive
- Increase timeouts if needed in CI environments
- Use `fullyParallel: false` to avoid resource conflicts

### Browser Context Issues
- Each test creates fresh browser contexts
- Contexts are properly cleaned up after tests
- No cross-test contamination

## CI/CD Integration

For continuous integration, add to your pipeline:

```yaml
- name: Install Playwright Browsers
  run: npm run install-browsers

- name: Run P2P Tests
  run: npm test
  env:
    CI: true
```

## Manual Testing

If you prefer manual testing instead of automated tests:

1. Open two browser tabs to `http://localhost:8000/js/modules/p2p-serverless/example.html`
2. Follow the on-screen instructions
3. Tab 1: Create Invitation → Copy code
4. Tab 2: Accept Invitation → Paste Tab 1's code → Copy answer
5. Tab 1: Complete Connection → Paste Tab 2's answer
6. Send messages to verify connection

## Test Coverage

- ✅ Invitation creation and modal display (P2P)
- ✅ WebRTC connection establishment (P2P)
- ✅ Real-time messaging (P2P)
- ✅ MusicXML rendering with OSMD (Music)
- ✅ Synchronized playback and timer advancement (Music)
- ✅ Performance metrics tracking (Music)
- ✅ Interaction state management (Music)

## Performance Metrics

Typical test execution times:
- Full connection flow: 30-45 seconds
- Individual steps: 2-10 seconds each
- Message exchange: < 1 second

These tests provide comprehensive coverage of the P2P serverless functionality, ensuring reliable peer-to-peer communication across different browser contexts.
