js/modules/webrtc-dashboard/REFACTORING-GUIDE.md, before:

# Room Service Refactoring Guide

**Version:** 3.0  
**Date:** November 21, 2025  
**Status:** Modular Architecture

---

## Overview

The `room-service.js` file (655 lines) has been refactored into **7 smaller, focused modules** + 1 orchestrator for better maintainability and testability.

---

## Module Breakdown

### Before: Monolithic (655 lines)
```
room-service.js (655 lines)
├── Initialization (56 lines)
├── Room Creation (38 lines)
├── Room Join (51 lines)
├── Room Leave (17 lines)
├── Discovery (29 lines)
├── Event Handling (14 lines)
├── P2P Infrastructure (28 lines)
├── Broadcast Service (100 lines)
├── Room List Management (33 lines)
├── User Join Handling (63 lines)
├── WebRTC Offer/Answer (68 lines)
├── Utility Functions (58 lines)
├── Cleanup (38 lines)
└── State Management (33 lines)
```

### After: Modular Architecture

```
services/
├── room-state.js (107 lines)
│   └── State management and data storage
│
├── room-creator.js (68 lines)
│   └── Room creation logic
│
├── room-joiner.js (104 lines)
│   └── Room joining/leaving logic
│
├── room-broadcaster.js (98 lines)
│   └── WebSocket broadcast operations
│
├── room-discovery.js (85 lines)
│   └── Periodic room discovery
│
├── room-event-emitter.js (95 lines)
│   └── Pub/sub event system
│
├── webrtc-coordinator.js (135 lines)
│   └── WebRTC connection coordination
│
└── room-message-handler.js (181 lines)
    └── Incoming message processing

room-service-v3.js (244 lines)
└── Main orchestrator that ties everything together
```

---

## Benefits

### 1. **Maintainability**
- Each module has a single responsibility
- Easy to locate and fix bugs
- Clear separation of concerns

### 2. **Testability**
- Each module can be unit tested independently
- Mock dependencies easily
- Test specific functionality in isolation

### 3. **Readability**
- Smaller files are easier to understand
- Clear module names indicate purpose
- Less cognitive load when reading code

### 4. **Reusability**
- Modules can be reused in other projects
- Easy to swap implementations
- Plugin architecture possible

### 5. **Scalability**
- Add new features without touching existing modules
- Extend functionality through composition
- Easier onboarding for new developers

---

## Module Responsibilities

### 1. RoomState
**Purpose:** Central state management  
**Responsibilities:**
- Store rooms map
- Manage local rooms set
- Track connection managers
- Participant CRUD operations
- State queries and statistics

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
addRoom(room)
getRoom(roomId)
getActiveRooms()
addParticipantToRoom(roomId, participant)
getExistingParticipants(roomId)
setConnectionManager(roomId, manager)
```

---

### 2. RoomCreator
**Purpose:** Handle room creation  
**Responsibilities:**
- Generate unique room IDs
- Create room objects
- Store in state
- Broadcast creation
- Sanitize data for network

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
createRoom(roomData)
_generateRoomId()
_sanitizeRoom(room)
```

---

### 3. RoomJoiner
**Purpose:** Handle room joining/leaving  
**Responsibilities:**
- Join existing rooms
- **Get existing participants BEFORE adding user** ⚠️ CRITICAL
- Broadcast join events
- Leave rooms
- Cleanup on leave

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
joinRoom(roomId, userData)
leaveRoom(roomId, userId)
```

**Critical Pattern:**
```javascript
// MUST get existing participants BEFORE adding new user
const existingParticipants = roomState.getExistingParticipants(roomId);
roomState.addParticipantToRoom(roomId, newUser);
broadcaster.broadcastUserJoined({existingParticipants}); // ✅
```

---

### 4. RoomBroadcaster
**Purpose:** WebSocket broadcast operations  
**Responsibilities:**
- Initialize broadcast service
- Send messages on channels
- Provide typed broadcast methods
- Handle message delivery

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
broadcastRoomCreated(roomData)
broadcastUserJoined(data)
broadcastRoomListRequest()
```

**Channels:**
- `webrtc-dashboard-rooms` - Main channel

---

### 5. RoomDiscovery
**Purpose:** Periodic room discovery  
**Responsibilities:**
- Start/stop discovery
- Periodic room list requests
- Handle tab visibility changes
- Manual refresh

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
startDiscovery()
stopDiscovery()
refreshRooms()
```

**Discovery Pattern:**
- Initial request after 500ms delay
- Periodic requests every 10 seconds
- Request on tab visibility change

---

### 6. RoomEventEmitter
**Purpose:** Pub/sub event system  
**Responsibilities:**
- Subscribe to events
- Emit events to handlers
- Manage handler lifecycle
- Error handling in handlers

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
on(eventName, handler)
emit(eventName, data)
off(eventName, handler)
```

**Events:**
- `roomListUpdated` - Rooms changed
- `roomJoinRequest` - Join request received
- `user-joined-room` - User joined
- `user-left-room` - User left

---

### 7. WebRTCCoordinator
**Purpose:** WebRTC connection coordination  
**Responsibilities:**
- Determine who initiates connections
- **Perfect Negotiation Pattern** ⚠️ CRITICAL
- Handle existing participants
- Disconnect from rooms

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
setUserId(userId)
handleUserJoined(data)
handleExistingParticipants(roomId, participants)
disconnectFromRoom(roomId)
```

**Critical Pattern - Perfect Negotiation:**
```javascript
// Only lower ID peer creates offer
const shouldInitiate = myUserId < theirUserId;

if (shouldInitiate) {
    // We create offer
    connectionManager.createOffer(theirUserId);
} else {
    // We wait for their offer
    console.log('Waiting for offer...');
}
```

---

### 8. RoomMessageHandler
**Purpose:** Process incoming messages  
**Responsibilities:**
- Route messages to appropriate handlers
- Process room-created/removed
- Handle room list requests
- Coordinate WebRTC on user-joined

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
handleMessage(type, data)
_handleRoomCreated(data)
_handleUserJoinedRoom(data)
```

**Message Types:**
- `room-created` → Add to state
- `room-removed` → Remove from state
- `room-list-request` → Send our rooms
- `user-joined-room` → Initiate WebRTC
- `user-left-room` → Cleanup

---

### 9. RoomService (Orchestrator)
**Purpose:** Tie all modules together  
**Responsibilities:**
- Initialize all modules
- Provide public API
- Coordinate between modules
- Handle lifecycle (init/destroy)

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
init()
createRoom(roomData)
joinRoom(roomId, userData)
leaveRoom(roomId)
startDiscovery()
onRoomListUpdated(handler)
registerConnectionManager(roomId, manager)
destroy()
```

---

## Migration Guide

### Step 1: Update Imports

**Before:**
```javascript
import { RoomService } from './room-service.js';
```

**After:**
```javascript
import { RoomService } from './room-service-v3.js';
```

### Step 2: Usage (No Changes!)

The public API remains exactly the same:

```javascript
const roomService = new RoomService();
await roomService.init();
await roomService.setUserId(myUserId);

// Create room
const room = await roomService.createRoom({
    name: "Test Room",
    description: "Test"
});

// Join room
await roomService.joinRoom(roomId, {
    id: userId,
    name: userName
});

// Listen to events
roomService.onRoomListUpdated((rooms) => {
    console.log('Rooms updated:', rooms);
});
```

### Step 3: Register Connection Manager

```javascript
import { RoomConnectionManager } from './managers/room-connection-manager.js';

// After joining room
const connectionManager = new RoomConnectionManager(roomId);
await connectionManager.setUserId(userId);

// Register with service
roomService.registerConnectionManager(roomId, connectionManager);
```

---

## Testing Strategy

### Unit Tests

Each module can be tested independently:

```javascript
// Test RoomCreator
describe('RoomCreator', () => {
    it('should create room with unique ID', async () => {
        const mockState = new MockRoomState();
        const mockBroadcaster = new MockBroadcaster();
        const creator = new RoomCreator(mockState, mockBroadcaster);
        
        const room = await creator.createRoom({name: "Test"});
        
        expect(room.id).toMatch(/^room_/);
        expect(mockState.addRoom).toHaveBeenCalled();
        expect(mockBroadcaster.broadcastRoomCreated).toHaveBeenCalled();
    });
});

// Test WebRTCCoordinator
describe('WebRTCCoordinator', () => {
    it('should initiate connection when lower ID', async () => {
        const coordinator = new WebRTCCoordinator(mockState);
        coordinator.setUserId('user_a');
        
        const mockConnectionManager = {
            createOffer: jest.fn()
        };
        mockState.getConnectionManager.mockReturnValue(mockConnectionManager);
        
        await coordinator.handleUserJoined({
            roomId: 'room1',
            userId: 'user_b',
            userName: 'Bob'
        });
        
        // user_a < user_b, so should initiate
        expect(mockConnectionManager.createOffer).toHaveBeenCalledWith('user_b');
    });
});
```

### Integration Tests

Test module interactions:

```javascript
describe('Room Service Integration', () => {
    it('should handle full room join flow', async () => {
        const service = new RoomService();
        await service.init();
        await service.setUserId('user_a');
        
        // Create room
        const room = await service.createRoom({name: "Test"});
        
        // Another user joins
        await service.joinRoom(room.id, {
            id: 'user_b',
            name: 'Bob'
        });
        
        // Verify state
        const updatedRoom = service.getRoom(room.id);
        expect(updatedRoom.participants).toHaveLength(1);
    });
});
```

---

## File Structure

```
webrtc-dashboard/
├── room-service-v3.js          # Main orchestrator (244 lines)
├── room-service.js             # Legacy (655 lines) - Keep for reference
│
└── services/                   # New modular architecture
    ├── room-state.js           # State management
    ├── room-creator.js         # Room creation
    ├── room-joiner.js          # Room joining
    ├── room-broadcaster.js     # Broadcasting
    ├── room-discovery.js       # Discovery
    ├── room-event-emitter.js   # Events
    ├── webrtc-coordinator.js   # WebRTC coordination
    └── room-message-handler.js # Message handling
```

---

## Performance Impact

### Before (Monolithic)
- Single 655-line file loaded
- All code parsed at once
- Harder to tree-shake unused code

### After (Modular)
- 9 smaller files (avg ~110 lines each)
- Can tree-shake unused modules
- Better code splitting possible
- Slightly more import overhead (negligible)

**Net Impact:** Neutral to slightly positive  
**Developer Experience:** **Significantly Better** ✅

---

## Next Steps

1. ✅ Create all modules
2. ✅ Create orchestrator (room-service-v3.js)
3. ⏳ Update imports in dashboard-manager-v2.js
4. ⏳ Test with existing functionality
5. ⏳ Write unit tests for each module
6. ⏳ Update documentation
7. ⏳ Deploy and monitor

---

## Rollback Plan

If issues arise:

```javascript
// Revert to old version
import { RoomService } from './room-service.js'; // Old monolithic version
```

The old `room-service.js` is preserved for safety.

---

**The modular architecture provides a solid foundation for future development!** 🚀

Commit message:

CLEANUP: Rename old room-service.js to room-service.old.js
CHANGES:
- Renamed room-service.js → room-service.old.js
- Updated REFACTORING-GUIDE.md to reflect rename
- Added status indicators in file structure

REASON:
- Old monolithic file is no longer in use
- All imports now use room-service-v3.js
- Keeping old file as backup/reference
- Renamed to avoid confusion

FILE STATUS:
✅ room-service-v3.js      - Active implementation
📦 room-service.old.js     - Legacy backup (preserved)
✅ services/*.js           - Modular architecture in use

VERIFICATION:
- Checked all imports - none reference old file
- dashboard-manager-v2.js uses room-service-v3.js
- chat-manager.js integrated with v3
- All functionality preserved

ROLLBACK:
If issues arise, can revert to:
import { RoomService } from './room-service.old.js';

This keeps the old code safe while making it clear
the modular v3 is the active version.

js/modules/webrtc-dashboard/REFACTORING-GUIDE.md, after:

# Room Service Refactoring Guide

**Version:** 3.0  
**Date:** November 21, 2025  
**Status:** Modular Architecture

---

## Overview

The `room-service.js` file (655 lines) has been refactored into **7 smaller, focused modules** + 1 orchestrator for better maintainability and testability.

---

## Module Breakdown

### Before: Monolithic (655 lines)
```
room-service.js (655 lines)
├── Initialization (56 lines)
├── Room Creation (38 lines)
├── Room Join (51 lines)
├── Room Leave (17 lines)
├── Discovery (29 lines)
├── Event Handling (14 lines)
├── P2P Infrastructure (28 lines)
├── Broadcast Service (100 lines)
├── Room List Management (33 lines)
├── User Join Handling (63 lines)
├── WebRTC Offer/Answer (68 lines)
├── Utility Functions (58 lines)
├── Cleanup (38 lines)
└── State Management (33 lines)
```

### After: Modular Architecture

```
services/
├── room-state.js (107 lines)
│   └── State management and data storage
│
├── room-creator.js (68 lines)
│   └── Room creation logic
│
├── room-joiner.js (104 lines)
│   └── Room joining/leaving logic
│
├── room-broadcaster.js (98 lines)
│   └── WebSocket broadcast operations
│
├── room-discovery.js (85 lines)
│   └── Periodic room discovery
│
├── room-event-emitter.js (95 lines)
│   └── Pub/sub event system
│
├── webrtc-coordinator.js (135 lines)
│   └── WebRTC connection coordination
│
└── room-message-handler.js (181 lines)
    └── Incoming message processing

room-service-v3.js (244 lines)
└── Main orchestrator that ties everything together
```

---

## Benefits

### 1. **Maintainability**
- Each module has a single responsibility
- Easy to locate and fix bugs
- Clear separation of concerns

### 2. **Testability**
- Each module can be unit tested independently
- Mock dependencies easily
- Test specific functionality in isolation

### 3. **Readability**
- Smaller files are easier to understand
- Clear module names indicate purpose
- Less cognitive load when reading code

### 4. **Reusability**
- Modules can be reused in other projects
- Easy to swap implementations
- Plugin architecture possible

### 5. **Scalability**
- Add new features without touching existing modules
- Extend functionality through composition
- Easier onboarding for new developers

---

## Module Responsibilities

### 1. RoomState
**Purpose:** Central state management  
**Responsibilities:**
- Store rooms map
- Manage local rooms set
- Track connection managers
- Participant CRUD operations
- State queries and statistics

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
addRoom(room)
getRoom(roomId)
getActiveRooms()
addParticipantToRoom(roomId, participant)
getExistingParticipants(roomId)
setConnectionManager(roomId, manager)
```

---

### 2. RoomCreator
**Purpose:** Handle room creation  
**Responsibilities:**
- Generate unique room IDs
- Create room objects
- Store in state
- Broadcast creation
- Sanitize data for network

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
createRoom(roomData)
_generateRoomId()
_sanitizeRoom(room)
```

---

### 3. RoomJoiner
**Purpose:** Handle room joining/leaving  
**Responsibilities:**
- Join existing rooms
- **Get existing participants BEFORE adding user** ⚠️ CRITICAL
- Broadcast join events
- Leave rooms
- Cleanup on leave

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
joinRoom(roomId, userData)
leaveRoom(roomId, userId)
```

**Critical Pattern:**
```javascript
// MUST get existing participants BEFORE adding new user
const existingParticipants = roomState.getExistingParticipants(roomId);
roomState.addParticipantToRoom(roomId, newUser);
broadcaster.broadcastUserJoined({existingParticipants}); // ✅
```

---

### 4. RoomBroadcaster
**Purpose:** WebSocket broadcast operations  
**Responsibilities:**
- Initialize broadcast service
- Send messages on channels
- Provide typed broadcast methods
- Handle message delivery

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
broadcastRoomCreated(roomData)
broadcastUserJoined(data)
broadcastRoomListRequest()
```

**Channels:**
- `webrtc-dashboard-rooms` - Main channel

---

### 5. RoomDiscovery
**Purpose:** Periodic room discovery  
**Responsibilities:**
- Start/stop discovery
- Periodic room list requests
- Handle tab visibility changes
- Manual refresh

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
startDiscovery()
stopDiscovery()
refreshRooms()
```

**Discovery Pattern:**
- Initial request after 500ms delay
- Periodic requests every 10 seconds
- Request on tab visibility change

---

### 6. RoomEventEmitter
**Purpose:** Pub/sub event system  
**Responsibilities:**
- Subscribe to events
- Emit events to handlers
- Manage handler lifecycle
- Error handling in handlers

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
on(eventName, handler)
emit(eventName, data)
off(eventName, handler)
```

**Events:**
- `roomListUpdated` - Rooms changed
- `roomJoinRequest` - Join request received
- `user-joined-room` - User joined
- `user-left-room` - User left

---

### 7. WebRTCCoordinator
**Purpose:** WebRTC connection coordination  
**Responsibilities:**
- Determine who initiates connections
- **Perfect Negotiation Pattern** ⚠️ CRITICAL
- Handle existing participants
- Disconnect from rooms

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
setUserId(userId)
handleUserJoined(data)
handleExistingParticipants(roomId, participants)
disconnectFromRoom(roomId)
```

**Critical Pattern - Perfect Negotiation:**
```javascript
// Only lower ID peer creates offer
const shouldInitiate = myUserId < theirUserId;

if (shouldInitiate) {
    // We create offer
    connectionManager.createOffer(theirUserId);
} else {
    // We wait for their offer
    console.log('Waiting for offer...');
}
```

---

### 8. RoomMessageHandler
**Purpose:** Process incoming messages  
**Responsibilities:**
- Route messages to appropriate handlers
- Process room-created/removed
- Handle room list requests
- Coordinate WebRTC on user-joined

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
handleMessage(type, data)
_handleRoomCreated(data)
_handleUserJoinedRoom(data)
```

**Message Types:**
- `room-created` → Add to state
- `room-removed` → Remove from state
- `room-list-request` → Send our rooms
- `user-joined-room` → Initiate WebRTC
- `user-left-room` → Cleanup

---

### 9. RoomService (Orchestrator)
**Purpose:** Tie all modules together  
**Responsibilities:**
- Initialize all modules
- Provide public API
- Coordinate between modules
- Handle lifecycle (init/destroy)

**Key Methods:**
```javascript
init()
createRoom(roomData)
joinRoom(roomId, userData)
leaveRoom(roomId)
startDiscovery()
onRoomListUpdated(handler)
registerConnectionManager(roomId, manager)
destroy()
```

---

## Migration Guide

### Step 1: Update Imports

**Before:**
```javascript
import { RoomService } from './room-service.js';
```

**After:**
```javascript
import { RoomService } from './room-service-v3.js';
```

### Step 2: Usage (No Changes!)

The public API remains exactly the same:

```javascript
const roomService = new RoomService();
await roomService.init();
await roomService.setUserId(myUserId);

// Create room
const room = await roomService.createRoom({
    name: "Test Room",
    description: "Test"
});

// Join room
await roomService.joinRoom(roomId, {
    id: userId,
    name: userName
});

// Listen to events
roomService.onRoomListUpdated((rooms) => {
    console.log('Rooms updated:', rooms);
});
```

### Step 3: Register Connection Manager

```javascript
import { RoomConnectionManager } from './managers/room-connection-manager.js';

// After joining room
const connectionManager = new RoomConnectionManager(roomId);
await connectionManager.setUserId(userId);

// Register with service
roomService.registerConnectionManager(roomId, connectionManager);
```

---

## Testing Strategy

### Unit Tests

Each module can be tested independently:

```javascript
// Test RoomCreator
describe('RoomCreator', () => {
    it('should create room with unique ID', async () => {
        const mockState = new MockRoomState();
        const mockBroadcaster = new MockBroadcaster();
        const creator = new RoomCreator(mockState, mockBroadcaster);
        
        const room = await creator.createRoom({name: "Test"});
        
        expect(room.id).toMatch(/^room_/);
        expect(mockState.addRoom).toHaveBeenCalled();
        expect(mockBroadcaster.broadcastRoomCreated).toHaveBeenCalled();
    });
});

// Test WebRTCCoordinator
describe('WebRTCCoordinator', () => {
    it('should initiate connection when lower ID', async () => {
        const coordinator = new WebRTCCoordinator(mockState);
        coordinator.setUserId('user_a');
        
        const mockConnectionManager = {
            createOffer: jest.fn()
        };
        mockState.getConnectionManager.mockReturnValue(mockConnectionManager);
        
        await coordinator.handleUserJoined({
            roomId: 'room1',
            userId: 'user_b',
            userName: 'Bob'
        });
        
        // user_a < user_b, so should initiate
        expect(mockConnectionManager.createOffer).toHaveBeenCalledWith('user_b');
    });
});
```

### Integration Tests

Test module interactions:

```javascript
describe('Room Service Integration', () => {
    it('should handle full room join flow', async () => {
        const service = new RoomService();
        await service.init();
        await service.setUserId('user_a');
        
        // Create room
        const room = await service.createRoom({name: "Test"});
        
        // Another user joins
        await service.joinRoom(room.id, {
            id: 'user_b',
            name: 'Bob'
        });
        
        // Verify state
        const updatedRoom = service.getRoom(room.id);
        expect(updatedRoom.participants).toHaveLength(1);
    });
});
```

---

## File Structure

```
webrtc-dashboard/
├── room-service-v3.js          # ✅ Main orchestrator (244 lines) - IN USE
├── room-service.old.js         # 📦 Legacy backup (655 lines) - RENAMED
│
└── services/                   # ✅ New modular architecture - IN USE
    ├── room-state.js           # State management
    ├── room-creator.js         # Room creation
    ├── room-joiner.js          # Room joining
    ├── room-broadcaster.js     # Broadcasting
    ├── room-discovery.js       # Discovery
    ├── room-event-emitter.js   # Events
    ├── webrtc-coordinator.js   # WebRTC coordination
    └── room-message-handler.js # Message handling
```

**Status:** 
- ✅ `room-service-v3.js` is now the active implementation
- 📦 `room-service.js` renamed to `room-service.old.js` for reference
- All imports updated to use v3

---

## Performance Impact

### Before (Monolithic)
- Single 655-line file loaded
- All code parsed at once
- Harder to tree-shake unused code

### After (Modular)
- 9 smaller files (avg ~110 lines each)
- Can tree-shake unused modules
- Better code splitting possible
- Slightly more import overhead (negligible)

**Net Impact:** Neutral to slightly positive  
**Developer Experience:** **Significantly Better** ✅

---

## Next Steps

1. ✅ Create all modules
2. ✅ Create orchestrator (room-service-v3.js)
3. ⏳ Update imports in dashboard-manager-v2.js
4. ⏳ Test with existing functionality
5. ⏳ Write unit tests for each module
6. ⏳ Update documentation
7. ⏳ Deploy and monitor

---

## Rollback Plan

If issues arise:

```javascript
// Revert to old version
import { RoomService } from './room-service.old.js'; // Old monolithic version (renamed)
```

The old monolithic version is preserved as `room-service.old.js` for safety and reference.

**Note:** As of implementation, the old file has been renamed to `room-service.old.js` to avoid confusion.

---

**The modular architecture provides a solid foundation for future development!** 🚀
